---
title: "Run Autonity"
description: >
  How to run Autonity in your own environment on Linux Ubuntu OS
---

::: {.callout-note title="Prerequisites" collapse="false"}
- Ensure that the host machine meets the [minimum requirements](/node-operators/install-aut/#requirements)
:::

## Run Autonity (binary or source code install) {#run-binary}

- Ensure that the Autonity Go Client has been installed from a [pre-compiled binary](/node-operators/install-aut#install-binary) or from [source code](/node-operators/install-aut#install-source)

To connect to a network and sync, get the genesis and bootnode files if needed, and run Autonity. Autonity will initialise, connect to the network, and then sync ledger state.

1. Create and enter a working directory for autonity.

1. Create the autonity-chaindata directory to hold the autonity working data:

	```bash
    mkdir autonity-chaindata
    ```

2. Generate the `autonitykeys` private key file for your node. This must be performed on the host machine running the Autonity Go Client, using the `autonity genAutonityKeys --writeaddress` command:

```bash
./autonity genAutonityKeys --writeaddress ./<DIR_PATH>/<OUT_KEY_FILE_NAME>
```

where:

  - `<DIR_PATH>`: is the path to the directory where you will store the private key file of the node.
  - `<OUT_KEY_FILE_NAME>`: is the name of the P2P autonity keys private key file you are generating for your node.

For example, running the command where the keystore directory is `(pwd)/keystore` and the file name `myAutonityKeysFile`:

```bash
./autonity/build/bin/autonity genAutonityKeys --writeaddress ./keystore/myAutonityKeysFile
```

You should see something like this:

```bash
Node address: 0x0f083e047725bF1dFf3efe110430B98AAac55986
Node public key: 0xee0f1195d19b422cd6fc69b060853b7c21094a84e66a225b549afafe7ba44996f85015d6a7f19d32e1e978db26db4083c8db8e153ddea6f1aa4c65608374c868
Consensus public key: 0x8aa83a28e235072ffdae48ff01ccc46e2b8d9dc16df9b6ff87ffa5ff6d8f90a2852649a60563237cd66a256f60a92e69
```
::: {.callout-important title="Important" collapse="false"}
Copy the output - you will need the output if you intend to register your validator as a node.

It is *not* possible to inspect the keyfile to retrieve the `Consensus public key` which you MUST provide as part of the validator registration information.

:::

::: {.callout-note title="Note" collapse="false"}

AGC will automatically generate a `nodekey` file for the node on starting if one does not already exist or is not specified in the `--autonitykeys` command option. The `nodekey` is generated by default within the `autonity` subfolder of the `--datadir` specified when running the node.)

:::


3. Start autonity:

    ``` bash
    autonity \
        --datadir ./autonity-chaindata \
        --autonitykeys ./<PATH_TO_AUTONITYKEYS_FILE> \
        --piccadilly  \
        --http  \
        --http.addr 0.0.0.0 \
        --http.api aut,eth,net,txpool,web3,admin \
        --http.vhosts \* \
        --ws  \
        --ws.addr 0.0.0.0 \
        --ws.api aut,eth,net,txpool,web3,admin  \
        --nat extip:<IP_ADDRESS>
    ```

   where:

   - `<PATH_TO_AUTONITYKEYS_FILE>` is the path to the `autonitykeys` file generated in Step 2.
   - `<IP_ADDRESS>` is the node's host IP Address, which can be determined with `curl ifconfig.me`.
   - `--piccadilly` specifies that the node will use the Piccadilly tesnet.  For other testnets, use the appropriate flag (for example, `--bakerloo`).

See the [Autonity command-line reference](/reference/cli) for the full set of available flags.

Autonity will download the blockchain in "snap" syncmode by default.  Once fully synced, it will continue to import new chain segments as they are finalized.

## Run Autonity as Docker image {#run-docker}

- Ensure that the Autonity Go Client [Docker image](/node-operators/install-aut#install-docker) has been installed.

1. Create and enter a working directory for autonity.

2. Create the autonity-chaindata directory to hold the autonity working data:

	```bash
    mkdir autonity-chaindata
    ```
3. Generate the `autonitykeys` private key file for your node and write the key file to your key directory. This must be performed on the host machine running the Autonity Go Client, using the `autonity genAutonityKeys --writeaddress` command:

```bash
docker run -t -i --volume $(pwd)/<DIR_PATH>/<OUT_KEY_FILE_NAME>:<DIR_PATH>/<OUT_KEY_FILE_NAME> --name autonity --rm ghcr.io/autonity/autonity:latest genAutonityKeys --writeaddress /<DIR_PATH>/<OUT_KEY_FILE_NAME>
```
```
docker run -t -i --volume $PWD/<DIR_PATH>/<OUT_KEY_FILE_NAME>:/<DIR_PATH>/<OUT_KEY_FILE_NAME> --name autonity --rm ghcr.io/autonity/autonity:latest genAutonityKeys  --writeaddress /<DIR_PATH>/<OUT_KEY_FILE_NAME>
````

where:

  - `<DIR_PATH>`: is the path to the directory where you will store the private key file of the node.
  - `<OUT_KEY_FILE_NAME>`: is the name of the P2P autonity keys private key file you are generating for your node.

To generate, run the Autonity Go Client docker container with the `<DIR_PATH>` directory mapped to a host directory of the same name.

For example, running the command where the keystore directory is `(pwd)/keystore` and the file name `myAutonityKeysFile`:

```bash
docker run -t -i --volume $PWD/keystore:/keystore --name autonity --rm ghcr.io/autonity/autonity:latest genAutonityKeys  --writeaddress /keystore/myAutonityKeysFile
````

You should see something like this:

```bash
Node address: 0x550454352B8e1EAD5F27Cce108EF59439B18E249
Node public key: 0xcef6334d0855b72dadaa923ceae532550ef68e0ac50288a393eda5d811b9e81053e1324e637a202e21d04e301fe1765900bdd9f3873d58a2badf693331cb1b15
Consensus public key: 0x90e54b54718c6d5e50d10b93743d743ebcec2f2a2fd43be6813dc5399e11a9bae891c0a357c8f3aa8ca411f9a526a03f
```

::: {.callout-important title="Important" collapse="false"}

Copy the output - you will need the output if you intend to register your validator as a node.

It is *not* possible to inspect the keyfile to retrieve the `Consensus public key` which you MUST provide as part of the validator registration information.

:::

::: {.callout-note title="Note" collapse="false"}

AGC will automatically generate a `nodekey` file for the node on starting if one does not already exist or is not specified in the `--autonitykeys` command option. The `nodekey` is generated by default within the `autonity` subfolder of the `--datadir` specified when running the node.)

:::

4. Start the node. Set the Docker configuration and the arguments for connecting Autonity to a network.

   ```bash
   docker run \
       -t -i \
       --volume $(pwd)/autonity-chaindata:/autonity-chaindata \
       --publish 8545:8545 \
       --publish 8546:8546 \
       --publish 30303:30303 \
       --publish 30303:30303/udp \
       --publish 6060:6060 \
       --name autonity \
       --rm \
       ghcr.io/autonity/autonity:latest \
           --datadir ./autonity-chaindata  \
           --piccadilly \
           --http  \
           --http.addr 0.0.0.0 \
           --http.api aut,eth,net,txpool,web3,admin  \
           --http.vhosts \* \
           --ws  \
           --ws.addr 0.0.0.0 \
           --ws.api aut,eth,net,txpool,web3,admin  \
           --nat extip:<IP_ADDRESS>
   ```

   where:
   - `<IP_ADDRESS>` is the node's host IP Address, which can be determined with `curl ifconfig.me`.
   - `--piccadilly` specifies that the node will use the Piccadilly tesnet.  For other tesnets, use the appropriate flag (for example, `--bakerloo`).

   See the [Autonity command-line reference](/reference/cli) for the full set of available flags.

::: {.callout-note title="Note" collapse="false"}
- Note that all flags after the image name are passed to the Autonity Go Client in the container, and thus follow the same pattern as for [running a binary or source install](#run-binary)
- The command above creates a temporary container, which is deleted (via the `--rm` flag) when the node is shut down.
- The hosts `autonity-chaindata` directory is mounted in the container (via the `--volume` option).  All working data will be saved in this directory and therefore persisted even when the temporary container is removed.
- The same `autonity-chaindata` directory can thereby be used by both a local binary and the docker image (although not at the same time), allowing administrators to switch between run methods at any time.
- The `--publish` flag causes incoming connections to the localhost to be forwarded to the container.
:::

Naturally, the above command line can be tailored to suit a specific deployment. See the docker documentation for the complete list of Docker options.

## Stopping the Autonity Go Client

To shutdown the node, press `CTRL-C` and wait for it to exit.

{{pageinfo}}
Now you can now [connect to your node using `aut`](/node-operators/connect/) from your _local_ machine.
{{/pageinfo}}

## Migrating an Autonity Go Client

To migrate a node to a new instance the node identity must be preserved. The [P2P node key](/concepts/validator/#p2p-node-key) and the node's host [ip address](/node-operators/install-aut/#network) must be maintained to keep the same node [identifier](/concepts/validator/#validator-identifier) address and [enode url](/glossary/#enode).

Copy the P2P `nodekey` to a safe location and when reinstalling and running the node:

- Install the node as described in the [install autonity](/node-operators/install-aut/) guide
- Migrate the `nodekey` before running the node:
  - When following the steps in this guide, modify the command creating the chaindata folder (Step 2 in this guide) to also create an autonity subfolder, i.e. `mkdir -p autonity-chaindata/autonity`
  - Copy your original `nodekey` from the safe location to your `autonity-chaindata/autonity` directory
- Start the node per Step 3 in this guide, maintaining the original IP address value for `--nat extip:<IP_ADDRESS>`.

Autonity will detect and use the original `nodekey`. The new node installation will have the same identity as the original.

::: {.callout-note title="Note" collapse="false"}
If you are running a validator node you need to:

- [pause the validator node](/validators/pause-vali/) **before migration**, and 
- [reactivate the new validator](/validators/pause-vali/) **after migration**

Be sure to fully decommission the original node installation.
:::

------------------------------------------------

If you need help, you can chat to us on Autonity [Discord Server](https://discord.gg/autonity)!
